

As the age of internet advances and usage of online channels for financial tasks gains momentum there arises a crucial requirement
of reliable and unfazed medium for completion of financial services. However digital fianance needs to combat multiple challengs including
One such product of digital finance includes digital payments or electronic payments that can be made via mobile or microATMs.
As these systems provide unparalled convenience, speed and accessibility one significant challenge involves, proliferation of fraud 
transactions. As these systems grow sophisticate, so too do the tactics employed by cybercriminal\cite{b10}.

Anamoly include human error, instrument faults, natural deviations in population, fraudlent behaviour. 
There is a significant amount of research going on and has been done in financial anamoly detection. Frequenty used models like
SVM, Logistic regression(LR), kNN, Random forest and neural networks\cite{b11}.

One such machine learning model is the Graph Neual Network which relies on the underlying graph structure of edges, node etc to gain extra hidden type of 
information while considering classification. Some application of GNNs include classification, recommendation systems, traffic forecasting and others\cite{b12}.
Development of graphSage, GAT, GCN, GraphTransformer and GIN have progressed towards building a strong ecosystem in exploiting graph based structures for graph
based classification and techniques. 
The authours of\cite{b13} proposed PinSage which exploits random-walks in the graph structure to perform graph convolution and incorporated additional pooling
and curriculum training that greatly increases the scalability of the system. Another application includes protein function prediction. It involves determining
a protein's biological role based on its sequence, structure and other features. GNNs leverage graph representation of proteins along with many other node and
edge level features like residues and binding sites which can be used to trained further to perform graph level classification. Authors of \cite{b14} introduce
a novel architecture that employ this multi-relational graphs to discover complex and non-linear data association using class activation mapping.
One major application of graphSage involves financial anamoly detection. 
Detecting anamolous nodes in graph based structure using GNNs for financial tasks has been gaining more and more exposure as fraudlent behaviour becomes
more and more sophisticated. 
One such work involves using SCN_GNN which proposed node sampling strategy based on information of strong node and graph topology\cite{b15} paierd with recurisve scalable
reinforcement learning(RSRL) module which further improves fraud detection performance but can lead to increased complexity.
Pick and Choose Graph Neural Network(PCGNN) \cite{b16} solves the class imbalance problem by using a devised label based sampler to pick nodes and edges
and forming a subgraph for mini-batch training however it does not tend to differnt types of non-fraud nodes while performing picking.





